The Bank of Mainland (BM) filed an initial suspicious activity report (SAR)  dated 6/11/01.  The SAR was filed due to unusual wire transfer and cash deposit activity involving two BM corporate customers, Sky Corporation and Sea Corporation, both registered in Vermont and having a common Vermont address.  BM has also filed numerous CTRs on cash deposits 
conducted on behalf of the two companies.  Our previous and recent reviews of the customers’ activities revealed the cash deposits and wire transfers involving the companies might be consistent with money laundering.  

Because BM was unable to determine any particulars about the  companies in order to establish a business justification for the activity, the 
following patterns appeared suspicious:  
1. A repeating pattern of structured cash deposits into business accounts held by the companies with wire transfers to a particular  beneficiary.  
2. Individual transactions conducted in large dollar amounts.  
3. Individual transactions conducted in even dollar amounts. 
4. Individual transactions conducted within a short period of time (i.e., daily basis, 2x's daily, every other day). 
5. Periodic incoming wire transfers from a foreign corporation via a correspondent account maintained by a foreign bank at Bank of  Mainland. 

Specifically, the analysis of the cash deposit and wire activity for the period 2/2/99 through 6/20/01 revealed the following:  

1. The Vermont companies are as follows: Sky Corporation and Sea Corporation, both of 1234 North Harvard Street, Suite 81, in  Burlington, Vermont.   
2. The total number and dollar value of cash deposits into accounts held by the companies are as follows: Sky Corporation, account #54321098, 284 deposits totaling $2,710,000; Sea Corporation, account #12345678, 200 deposits totaling $1,900,000.  Reviews of the accounts indicate all the deposits were night deposits conducted through three main branches of BM: North Burlington; South Burlington; and West Burlington.  The average amount of deposits negotiated through account #12345678 was from $8,720 to $16,500.  Many of the transactions conducted on the same day at multiple branches in amounts under $10,000 may have been conducted to circumvent federal reporting requirements.   
3. 15 incoming wire transfers were received from Tolinka Inc. affecting account #12345678.  Tolinka Inc. is registered in Utah and is a customer of Bank XYZ in Warsaw, Poland, account #689472.  Bank XYZ maintains a correspondent relationship with the Bank of Poland.  The Bank of Poland, in turn, maintains a correspondent account at BM.  As part of BM’s due diligence of foreign wire transactions, we contacted Bank of Poland to have them inquire with Bank XYZ about Tolinka Inc.  Bank XYZ could not substantiate the type of business activity or provide any documentation for Tolinka Inc.  Bank XYZ’s contact with Tolinka Inc. in response to our query resulted in the business closing its account with Bank XYZ with no explanation provided.  
4. The total number and dollar value of outgoing wire transfers from Sky Corporation and Sea Corporation is as follows: Sky Corporation, account #54321098, 274 wire transfer debits totaling $2,697,000; Sea Corporation, account #12345678, 198 wire transfer debits totaling $1,866,000.  The day after cash deposits, wire transfers were usually conducted through the use of a remote computer terminal as part of an Internet service for the accounts.  The amount of wire transfers usually equaled the aggregate of deposits from the day before.  All wire transfers from both accounts were remitted to Paul Lafonte, Artsy Bank, account #456781234, in Paris, France.  

At the time the accounts were opened with our financial institution, a registered agent for both companies provided corporate filings filed with the Secretary of State of Vermont indicating the companies are for-profit, engaged in retail shoe sales.  As part of our annual review  of corporate accounts, we were unable to substantiate if the companies are still active from researching public records, commercial database systems, or the Internet.  Attempted telephone contact with the companies identified both numbers as being disconnected.  The companies do not appear to maintain operating  businesses in Vermont; and there is no indication of legitimate business activity.   

Due to these factors and the suspicious demeanor of the account activity, bank management has decided to end our banking relationships with Sky Corporation and Sea Corporation.  All records related to this matter are being maintained by the bank’s central branch operations officer in Burlington, VT.

